---
title: "The spark!"
date: 2025-06-13
---

# Motive:
Few years back, we still have our old senior in the team. we felt confident and as team made a huge changes in our ecosystem. we automated lot of the customer work,
like download recouces and uploading result. year before that we made huge change to the UI, so the customer's customers got happy.
We not only responsible to make the program and the ecosystem, as our company also supply the contnet. 

the problem starts with those points:
1- We stumble upon errors and edge cases, which intreduce coplex solution, like additional manual steps to Release.
2- The automated content delivery starts to show its limit, so we starts to validate it.
3- We got more and more resposibilty from the content team, and increasing our tasks slowly.

Feels for me like 2 steps forwards, 1 step backwards. and we got to get that 1 step backword, with TECHNOLEGY! 🧑‍💻

# The growing tention:
from time to time i saw the frustration of the team members to keep the automated system stable and the content validation tasks.
as for me, it was annoyance to publish new release as i kept forgetting one steps.

The undelying problem: `Lack of trust in the system`
and it steal Sprint time, it broke our work-life balance, release become become heavy, we lost operation knownlage. 
it shift our way of thinkning and impacted our plans for new features.
we work under pressure a lot, and it mostly fine, but it start to grow, and that the problem.

# The spark:
at my performance review, the team leader told me i proven myself to fit as senior for the next big release, and he wants me to learn to become TechLead and maybe even Architect.
it was amazing, but it didnt change much, not immidiatly.

AI, i dont like ai, but it started to grow on me. one day, the managment announces about AI workshop, each team needed to bring idea. 
at the special day, we splitted to group of 3-4, got idea, and start to work on it.
our team was: senior developer (me), QA, and our team leader. 
the task: automate the manual content validation. 
result: nothing happens, we create minitool, but it didnt get to see the sunlight, and now it kind of buried somewhere.
the indirect result: AI tools started to become fun.

but both point together, it started to form. i want to help the team, i have the role and i can have bigger say (i could before, but now it actually my job)

# The plan:
Talk a lot to the team and find the pain points, investigate what where and why things are painful. 
for me the current state: 
i plan to read few books, i watch some youtube, made few organize my thoughts with ChatGPT conversation to find the correct keywords and brainstorm.


i made script to automate manual deployment, and it awesome. the best part, it become so easy, that the team start talk about daily build! 
